Felix: Today I'm joined by Charlie Gower from the Nue Co. The Nue Co. helps people redefine their relationship with good health and how supplements play a part in that. And was started in 2018 and it's based out of London. Welcome Charlie.


Charlie: Hey Felix. Good to be here.


Felix: So you founded the company because you looked in the space and you did not like the ingredients that most supplements were using. He tells me more about that. What were some issues that you were finding?


Charlie: Yeah, I mean, I think it's probably worth taking a step back to that in terms of what we're trying to do as a business. So if you look at our company in simple terms, we are a health and wellness business that sells supplements. But before we get to the ingredients, for us as a company, it was thinking about how we help people reconnect with what good health actually means in such a fast moving world. I think there's started to become a disconnect of what it actually means to be in good health. So for us, it was looking at actually, how do we create that connection between mind and body and help customers on that journey get into a place where they understand where potentially they have issues that are leading to maybe not such good health and how they can then create and develop a lifestyle that allows them to fix those issues. And then through that, we of course provides targeted solutions to those issues through the supplements that we create.


Felix: Makes sense. So what's your background? Why did you choose the focus on health specifically?


Charlie: Yeah, so again, I probably don't have an atypical background for most entrepreneurs. I actually started my career as a professional sportsman. I was a professional rugby player at London Irish, which is a team in the UK, in London. Quite a lot of people ask me, was that the right decision coming out of high school to take that route rather than kind of going into more traditional career? I actually think that the exposure that it gives you, to professionals that are right at the top of their industry, at the pinnacle of their careers, is something you wouldn't get in the corporate environment at an early stage. You're thrust into a very professional environment, surrounded by brilliant leaders. I think that's actually what's set me up for success as an entrepreneur. You're put in difficult environments where you have to find solutions. So most entrepreneurs listening can vouch for the fact that no day's the same. So at an early age being exposed to that environment, I think set me up for success. And then unfortunately that came to an end. I have a biblically long list of injuries, broken bones, hundreds of stitches. And if you're in the US, obviously rugby is a very similar sport to NFL. So as a result, unfortunately, I had to retire at a pretty young age. I was 22, 23, but with that background, I launched my first venture. I was very set on becoming an entrepreneur and almost making that my career. I launched a technology business at the age of 24. The business software engineers to find new career opportunities. And for those that are more technical, it helps give visibility to open source software. We did that Bootstrap, so we raised no funding. The business had to get to the place very quickly where it was generating sales, generating an income that could sustain the business, the employees that we wanted to hire. And we were able to do that. And in the second year we returned a seven figure profit, which is fantastic. I think that the business was probably a little bit too niche. So building it from there became challenging, but it's still running today with offices in the UK and the US. But obviously coming from a sporting background, my real passion has always been fitness, health, and wellness. And reverting to what I said at the top of the conversation, how could I, as an entrepreneur, make an impact on people's health and wellbeing? And that's really where The Nue Co. came from. My co founder and the CEO is actually my other half as well. She'd been a longterm IBS sufferer and failed to find an existing solution through the more traditional medicines. And actually when you go to the doctor, there isn't anything they can prescribe for IBS. So she sat down with her grandfather who was a chemist at the University of Cambridge, and started to look at potential ingredients and things that she could put together to try and create a cure on her own. And that was really where the Nue Co. came from. And the first product that was launched was a product called Debloat Food. And since then, I'll let Jules speak to that, but she no longer suffers from IBS.


Felix: Gossip. So you mentioned that one of the skills that was the most valuable between your sports and athletic career over to entrepreneurship was this leadership, which I think to a lot of people might be a little bit abstract. To you, what does it mean to have leadership specifically in like an eCommerce startup?


Charlie: Yeah, it probably goes to what I said in terms of no day is the same, particularly in eCommerce. Every day you're coming into the business, thinking about, "Okay, how do we be more innovative? How are we challenging what is expected of an eComm platform? How are we acquiring more customers? How are we thinking of reaching outside our existing core customer group?" And it takes a very specific set of skills, in my opinion, that are driven from good leadership skills to be able to do that, to come in, one, and motivate the team in an environment that is very agile, fast moving, decisions are made quickly and things change quickly. So the leadership scape abilities that you have as an individual really help keep people focused, even through all the potential chaos that people have. I'm sure again, the listeners can vouch for as an eComm founder that you face every day.


Felix: Makes sense. So for anyone out there that wants to cultivate this skill, any recommendations on how to become a better leader?


Charlie: Yeah. I mean, that's a fantastic question. I think most leaders learn on the job. You put yourself in an environment where you're being challenged. And someone said something to me when I actually finished playing rugby, they said, "Put yourself in a position at least two or three times a week where you feel nervous because that's really when you grow and you develop." I think within entrepreneurship, if you're feeling nervous it's probably where you're going to learn the most and develop those skills as a leader. We're very fortunate the business has got to where it is today, again with the 22 people, hopefully 25, in the next few weeks across the US and UK. So there's lots of different people involved, there's lots of different personalities. So putting yourself in a position where you're learning as fast as possible. Marketing and developing good leadership skills is what sets us up to success.


Felix: Yeah. I think that's important. It's a reminder that think a lot of us will look for signs of whether we're on the right path or not. And sometimes we think that uncomfortableness or overwhelmed means something is wrong, but what I'm hearing from you is that that is how you grow, especially grow into a leader.


Charlie: Yeah, absolutely. I think often those are the situations that we proactively in our professional careers try to involve avoid. I think actually as an entrepreneur, the more you can do to put yourself in that position, the more you will learn and the faster you become better as an entrepreneur. There's not really, if you think about it, a very straight route into becoming an eComm entrepreneur or an eComm professional. Most people find a product that they want to sell and the obvious route is through your own channels and eComm, so there's so much that most eComm professionals don't know when they take that first step into launching a website. I think by thinking with this mindset of like, "Okay, how can I develop my own skills and learn as fast as possible?" In my opinion, if you put yourself in a place where you might not have all the answers, you're going to have to force yourself to find them.


Felix: Right. So this nervousness of feeling overwhelmed, use it as a North star to guide you, like, "What is that direction I should take?" So you launched this technology company sounds like for software engineers to look for more career paths. At what point did you transition into The Nue Co?


Charlie: So that business was running for about three or four years. And at the start of that business, I'd met Jules and we were together, and she obviously evolved the idea of The Nue Co. and got it to a place where it was ready to launch. And then I joined her and started to support her after the first few months post launch.


Felix: Got it. Okay. Talk to us about the early days then. So where did the idea come from and when did it start becoming more locate, "This is a business that we should run with"?


Charlie: So, for me, it was very much around the relationship that I had with supplements as a professional athlete. The supplements you take are very much about performance and the outcome that they have in influencing a better performance. I think when I finished playing rugby it became less really about performance and more about being in both a physical and mental state that is allowing me to be as productive and as successful as possible through my career. I think very few supplements speak to that specifically. And fundamentally, the idea came from the fact that I wanted to create a brand and a business that would give me those types of products that I could relate to. And from Jules' perspective she had an issue. There was not a solution to that issue in the market. She couldn't find anything that would give her relief from her IBS. So like any good entrepreneur, you start to explore and you start to develop a product that can do that. And again, like I said, that's where The Nue Co. is born from. And she was fortunate that her grandfather, a chemist at Cambridge and a professor at Cambridge University, was able to support her in the early development of products.


Felix: Makes sense. Yeah. I think when people think about starting supplement business, it does sound like a lot of technical skills you need to learn to actually develop it. So talk to us about that. You mentioned the first product, was it the Debloat Food? Is that what was the first one?


Charlie: Yeah, absolutely. That's still one of our hero excuse today. As again, the reason why we feel it was successful, there was a very clear narrative about why the products were created and they drove a result specifically to the need that Jules had. I think that if you can build a solution that speaks to a problem as an individual, going out and being able to then market that, create a brand around it becomes far more real. And people are far more engaged in the fact that you've then developed a product for your own problems that could then potentially also solve problems for them. I think that creates that buy-in that's given us the good narrative, the brand story and all that stuff that people are really actually interested in writing about. And often parts as entrepreneurs, we forget to really consider a lot of people that I'm sort of helping and advising at the moment on launching our own eComm brands. They forget about the narrative before the products came to existence and what was their problem and why was this the solution? And why did this solution work again to what already exists in the market? So I think for us, it has been very clear on that narrative and that story that Jules created.


Felix: Yeah. I think it's important, worth repeating. So you're talking about, you need to kind of start off with a narrative, like what was the origin of this business, this idea? So you said that you have to be able to identify the problem, the solution, and why the solution works?


Charlie: Yeah. I mean, you look at Debloat Food as a product and the ingredients in that. They are not going to sell that product to a consumer. And I know that sounds slightly foreign, but it's actually the narrative behind the results that product delivers that it's going to be successful. And if you think about that as our first product and one of the hero products today, even the name in itself is slightly peculiar, but it speaks exactly to that problem. So the product is called Debloat Food. And if you're on the website, you can see the design on that product that says, "Relax." I think it says, "Relax a bloated stomach." Right on the front of the jar. So we were speaking very specifically to a problem that people have. It isn't the ingredients that sell the product. It's the narrative and the brand, but then it's the great ingredients that drive success and the results and the retention of our customers. So I think it's just thinking about it as a whole picture and being very clear on what gets the customer engaged, what drives them to convert, and then what keeps them as a customer. And they're actually very different things.




Felix: Yeah. I think this is important, especially in a company like a supplement company or anything else that is highly technical, especially when the ingredients matter. You're saying that ingredients, of course, do matter and the "features" of the product do matter because it is what actually will drive the result. But when it comes to the messaging, the marketing, that those ingredients don't sell themselves, the results that those ingredients deliver is what sells it. So even to the point where you mentioned that you name the product in a certain way, or the packaging clearly talks to the problem and the solution that is trying to present. So how do you balance this practical way of speaking directly to a problem and branding? So I think a lot of people would think that these two are conflicting, where if you're coming out and saying, "Hey, this solves this very specific problem." You take away from your ability to kind of brand. What are your thoughts on that?


Charlie: Yes, it's a great question. And something that a lot of people can say to us, they're like, "Wow, your branding is very nice. It looks great. And that must be the reason why people buy it." I think that that is part of it and it's part of the narrative, but I think for supplements in particular, everybody's interested, but potentially not that educated in what they need. So if you came to us and said, "Right, Nue Co. I've got I've got bloating issues. I eat certain foods and I have real bloating problems." If you then came to our website and it just said, "This product is Jerusalem Artichoke Root." You're not going to have a clue what that really means and if that speaks to the problem that you have. So I think as an eComm brand that's new to market, you have to be very clear again, in the solution you're providing. So by humanizing it, helping customers educate themselves on which product's right for them, then you have to be very clear and direct with the solution that you're offering. And that's why we took the route. If you look at most of our products, all of the logos and the narrative behind them is very clearly speaking to specific problems. Because if we just purely spoke about the ingredients, we'd probably confuse, intimidate people, and probably them as customers. And get me wrong, the ingredients are absolutely paramount to everything that we do. And when we talk internally, we talk about being a product first business, because the products fundamentally have to work. And then the brand, the packaging, the logo, the identity is built around that to be able to deliver it in the right way.


Felix: Got it. Okay. So let's talk about the product development. I think you said that your partner, your co founder's grandfather was a chemist?


Charlie: Yeah, that's right. So he studied at University of Cambridge as a chemist. And also, I believe he was a professor there as well.


Felix: Got it. So walk us through the product development process when you first came out with it, how did you know what to start with and was there testing involved with the target market?


Charlie: Yeah. Absolutely. So as a sort of absolute hero, the Debloat product was our first product. And because it was built to cure Jules' specific problem, we were able to iterate, we were able to test certain combinations of ingredients, test different formulas, test different ingredients sizes, and get to a place where it was really starting to deliver the results that she wanted. There was a huge amount of trial and error. I think because nothing really like it exists in the market because we weren't able to find anything that delivered the results she wanted. We had to be willing to test, create formulas and develop things that we were hoping would work, but might not give us what we wanted. I think we were really happy with where we got to, obviously the results were that the IBS, when she felt bloated, it would disappear. And we were able to then develop the product off the back of that. So as again, I've said at the start, the story is far more real because we developed a product that spoke to the problem that we had. We probably get to it, but we're very fortunate to have a lot of very good investors around the business. So we get access to huge amounts of insight research. We worked with some of the best labs in the world, which has allowed us to develop the products that we have. I think from a product perspective, and I spoke at the top of the conversation about this connection between mind and body, when we look to develop products, we take clinically studied ingredients. So the ingredients that have been studied, they have all of the information around the results they give you and combine that with more holistic based ingredients, so Ayurvedic and Chinese medicines, to create products that we believe deliver the results that we want.


Felix: That makes sense. So how long did this process take to come out with that very first cue, the very first product, the Debloat product?


Charlie: It probably took around 12 to 15 months, to be honest. Jules quit her job, and then in terms of getting the business live in January, 2018 or thereabouts, it was about 12 months. Yeah. It's a long process. With product development now we currently run about a 12 month cadence from ideation through to a finished good in the warehouse. So there's a long processes. We want to make sure we develop the best products. As I said, we're a product first business. We have a fantastic VP of product who spends all day speaking to labs, doing research, looking at potential trends and ingredients that we can use. It's a fascinating process. I think that if you look again at the way our site's structured, each product fits in a particular need state. So within sleep, let's say people who have sleep issues have very ... there's not one fit solution for someone with a sleep problem. You could struggle to fall asleep and I could struggle to stay asleep. And the product that you need to develop to speak to those problems is different. So we focus on these new states. So gut health, sleep, stress, and drive personalization through more granular categories within each of those verticals in the products that we develop.


Felix: Got it. So, yeah, 12 plus months is certainly a good chunk of time. It's a lot longer than most eCommerce copies, eCommerce brands are typically used to. So as you go through this process over and over again, what have you found to be the most challenging parts of this 12 plus month product development process?


Charlie: It's probably evolved since we first launched. At an early stage it was probably around forecasting the cost to produce that good based on what you're anticipating selling. It's a challenge, whether you're selling supplements, or t-shirts, or trainers or anything online. It's forecasting against the expected sales and then driving a margin or a cost to produce that good based on that. So in the early days, it was definitely an issue. Supplements, they have a shelf life, so you have to get that stuff right. Otherwise, you get product buildup and potentially you're not being as efficient with your spends and the dollars that you have. So early on, that was certainly the challenge with the product development. At the moment as we've grown, being more aware of all of the different components, the different teams within the organization need. So what does our wholesale team need? What does the eComm team need? What does the marketing team need to be able to successfully launch a product? When you spend 12 months and invest a lot of money in that R&D in the research stage, you want to make sure when a product comes to market you do it right. And as we've grown, a lot of people have a lot of different needs within that go to market phase and as we're going through the product development.


Felix: Now, when you are sitting down with the team and deciding what to focus on the next 12 months, how do you determine what direction to focus on what problems you solve next?


Charlie: So we have great engagement with our customers. We send out a twice yearly survey just to find out if there's any shift in terms of potential issues people have, in terms of even the delivery mechanism of our products, like are they being consumed in the right way? As people comfortable taking pills, they prefer topicals, they prefer powders. So always engaging our existing customer base to understand where they're at. And then developing products off the back of that. But of course, as I've said, they have to fit into those particular need states so that people come to us. We're helping them on that journey. We're helping them understand, right? If I have, as I said, sleep issues, which is the right Nue Co. product for us? And they might get to a place when actually, we don't have a product that quite fits that particular need. So that will drive our internal need to then create a product that fits that.


Felix: And are there checkpoints along the way during these 12 months to determine, I guess, course directive if needed?


Charlie: Yeah. So just ask the end part of that question again.


Felix: Yeah. During those 12 months, so when you're working on this, when you're developing a new product, are there checkpoints along the way to make sure that you're still kind of heading in the right direction?


Charlie: Yeah, absolutely. So we do trials internally and we then bring in consumer trials as we get closer towards launch to make sure that the product resonates, to make sure that it's getting the results that we want. Those are critical moments through the, NPD, new product development process. Fundamentally, most of the labs that we work with need quite a significant amount of lead time to then produce these products based on the scale we get into. So there's continuous checkpoints with them. If you look at our products, and you can see online, there's a lot of components. We're moving components all over the world to get there. So there's a lot of different things and doppler and elements that can potentially go wrong. A good example of that through COVID, for example, we print the labels on the glass jars in a lab or in a factory in the West coast. And they actually closed for three months. So we suddenly were put in a place where we couldn't create any new components or jars. So there was a checkpoint where actually, it pushed the live date of those orders or the replenishment. And then we had to think of another solution to get those jars printed. So it's very important to stay on top of that NPD process, particularly with a product like ours.
Felix: Now, when you first launched, when that first product, that Debloat product, was ready to go, what was the launch process like? How did you get your first customers?


Charlie: Yeah. I know I'm speaking on a eComm podcast, but actually we're quite untraditional in that sense. So we launched through another retailer. So we launched with Net-a-Porter, which is typically a fashion retailer. They were moving into this category, looking at how wellness products fit into their existing consumers habits. We were able to sign an agreement where they launched us exclusively for the first couple of months, which gave us as a new business, huge amounts of credibility. It gave us instant brand awareness. That meant that when we turned on our website or indirect channels, and we were able to launch with an article in Vogue, which had Jules on front, which is fantastic. But it wasn't a typical route for an eComm business who would go through the paid social media channels or organic social media channels. We actually thought because of the product, because of the category being quite new at the time, we wanted to leverage Net-a-Porter again to give us that awareness. But also hugely important, it was the credibility in the products because they were already a trusted retailer with a huge consumer base, always shopping online as well.


Felix: Got it. And you were a brand new product that time. How did you land that? I think one of the challenges is again to retail. There's a lot of times I'll hear from other entrepreneurs that you do need some track record of success that there's demand for your products. How were you able to land in a retailer with a brand new product, brand new company?


Charlie: Yeah, it's a good question. It's something that a lot of people come and ask me like, how do we do it? And we think everyone and the stars aligned. So Net-a-Porter were looking to launch this category. They knew what resonate with their consumer, and it didn't really exist on the market. If you look at that Debloat product, it's packaged in very luxury packaging. It's very nice looking and aesthetically pleasing when you receive it. But it does say Debloat on it twice in big letters. So I think that the way that we crafted the brand. We obviously had conversations ongoing with people at Net-a-Porter about some of the design as we went through that process. I think that as I said, the stars aligned and we fit very much with what they were looking to do with this category. And it made sense for them to help us launch it.


Felix: Got it. What about the ongoing launches since you are releasing products continually. How are new products introduced to the market?


Charlie: Yeah, so it's a big part of what we do. So new products we'd expect to account for around 20% of our revenues across the course of the year. And we build some moments through the year where we launch new products. So typically we aim for about four product launches. And within those product launches, you can have a collection of products through the year. So we build a lot of our marketing and a lot of our planning into those moments. And actually it works really nicely because you can give the products the air time and the visibility that they need to have the impact on launching them.


Felix: Got it. And you mentioned to us that one of the best marketing strategies was September last year, 2019, you launched the campaign, the how are you really campaign. Tell us more about that. What was the idea behind that campaign?


Charlie: Yeah, so again, just right to the top of the conversation and what we spoke about, health and wellness is not just body, it's mind as well. So through the how are you really campaign we wanted to help people connect with their mind and the impact that that was then having on their body. There's fascinating statistics about the impact of stress on the body and what it can do to you. I think if you look at that as a problem within particularly the US at the moment, those highly concentrated cities and everything we've gone through with COVID, the campaign was really there to help people feel comfortable with having that conversation and asking that question, how are you? And that's pretty much today and still is what we stand for as a brand. We want our customers to ask themselves how they are. And when I said at the start, we're helping people reconnect with their bodies to understand good health, that all has to start with you asking yourself that question, "Am I sleeping well enough? Do I have gut issues? Why am I breaking out with acne potentially?" All those questions start with, how am I, how are you? And I think that what we did, it just resonated really nicely with the customers that saw those campaigns. We did tie it into one of our products that speaks to stress. But to be honest, that was not about selling products. That was about our vision and mission as a business of helping people reconnect with themselves and be more healthy.


Felix: Yeah. And a part of that campaign was these out of home billboards that you had purchased in inexpensive, I guess, advertising real estate cities, right? New York, Brooklyn, LA. Tell us more about that. I think it's an area that most entrepreneurs, especially eCommerce entrepreneurs have not considered, out of home billboards. Tell us more about the experience of running ads on there.


Charlie: Yeah. As an early stage business, it's not the typical route to go down, but we like to think we don't follow the typical route. That campaign was all about impact and message. I think something that is quite reassuring on our end, that we got it right is that billboard on Mercer street is still up today. We paid for that for a month and it's been up for nearly 12 months. So I think that maybe no one's buying the space, but we've benefited from that hugely. I think the company that helped put us up are obviously benefiting from it, because people take lots of photos of it. So it wasn't really a typical route, but we've never really gone down the typical routes, to be honest, in terms of our marketing strategy. And with that campaign in particular, we wanted people to stop, have a moment, look at the billboards and ask themselves that question.
If you're serving those on traditional paid media ads, is it really getting that message across in the right way? Probably not. So in terms of measuring an ROI as you would in the DC business through your marketing channels out of home is very difficult. There was no connection to the product. There was no discount codes mentioned or anything like that. I think it was because as a brand we knew how important of a message it was. And we just wanted, as I said, people to stop, have a moment, ask themselves that question.


Felix: And there was a lot of this organic fallout from there where people are taking pictures of it. One interesting thing that you mentioned that I hadn't considered was that for out of home billboards, they do not replace yours until someone else purchases that space?


Charlie: Yeah. I mean, that's specifically how it works. I'm sure someone that works in that industry could give you a better answer, but ours has been up for much longer than we paid for it. So we're hugely grateful for them keeping it up, but I'm sure it's not typical.


Felix: Makes sense. Now, you mentioned earlier too, you hinted at the raising of funds for your business. Tell us more about that. When did this happen?


Charlie: I was fortunate that I sort of came from a business at Bootstrapped and learned entrepreneurship in the hardest and the rawest sense. I think that we knew that developing the products and the early signals that Jules was getting an interest from investors in conversations that she was having, that it made sense to raise some initial capital. So the first round of funding we did was relatively small. It was a traditional friends and family rounds. And very quickly Jules was able to go out and raise a seed round and actually at that point, even bring in some institutional based investors. So we were fortunate, as I said, to have Unilever Ventures as an investor, Morningside Group. Their coming in at that stage wasn't actually that typical for them either. I think that spoke to the category that we were going after in the brand that we'd created. Since then, we've done another round of funding, a series A round of funding, we brought some more great partners into the business. AF Ventures, a fund in New York who absolutely brilliant and also REDO Ventures who is a spin out or part of the family office of the lots of tan skincare brand.


Felix: Now, for other eCommerce brands that are maybe not necessarily considering this approach, but are now thinking about it, when should an eCommerce brand consider raising funds for their business?


Charlie: Yeah. I mean, it's a difficult question. There's no perfect answer that to be honest. It's case by case. If I'm totally honest with ourselves, I don't think we went out to raise the amount of money that we did. And that obviously was beneficial in a way that we then discussed the product with investors and we were communicating with them. When it becomes all about raising money, and that's kind of like the goal even early on, or at series A stage, I don't think it becomes this credible as a business. So it's a super difficult question and one I probably don't have a very good answer for. But if I was launching any eComm brand again, I would be very cautious of preserving equity at early stages because when you get it right, things go well. You can have a lot of success through selling online. I think you want to preserve that equity. You absolutely fundamentally need to preserve that control. I think Jules was paramount in that, in going into any investor conversations that investment great. If it comes, it comes, but fundamentally she wants to control the business. She wants us to be able to be the decision makers for the foreseeable future and craft a business that we want. So I would say that if you can raise money, great. If you can't, don't let it detract you from what you're trying to do because it will come if you get it right. Obviously, some businesses, you need some capital to get you up and running. But I think if it all becomes about raising money, then it's unlikely to be the successful business you'd want.


Felix: So it sounds like what you're saying is that if you don't necessarily need the money, it becomes easier or are you in a better position to get what you need and what you want?


Charlie: I mean, I have firsthand experience with that. If I was to look at my other business and say that should we have raised some money? I'd now probably say, "Yeah, we probably should have." But at the time we're generating cash, it felt like we didn't need to. But now if you can get some cash into the business, it gives you that ability to trial and test acquisition strategies, marketing strategies, and give you some breathing room to feel competent in executing on your mission. It's going to help your business. It shouldn't be the end goal. If you want to do it without that, then it absolutely can be done without that. But you don't want to sit here and say, "It doesn't help to bring in some cash to the business." Because it does. But it doesn't necessarily mean success or failure if you do or don't bring it in.


Felix: Got it. Now you mentioned that one of the keys to your success is being able to focus on data and be able to track all the data from day one, which allows you to make better and faster decisions. Tell us more about that. When you wake up in the morning, what are some of the KPIs or data points that are most important to you?


Charlie: Yeah, so it reverts back to what I mentioned earlier, being a product first business. Our goal is to create products that become habitual and part of people's lifestyles. So repeat purchase rate is absolutely fundamental to seeing success. If we're developing products that people are coming back to buy, that means we are developing products that work. You don't buy these products again if you don't feel like they've worked. So at the moment, we have a 70% repeat purchase rate across the site, which is a huge testament again, to the quality of the product. So that is a huge metric for us. And one, we had our hat on based on, as I said, the quality of the products that we've been able to develop. In terms of actually more granular metrics that we look at alongside that repeat purchase rate, we're very focused on AOV because it's a really clear signal of us being able to communicate the benefits of taking multiple products in the right way. So if we're seeing that trend in the right way, basket size, all those things are really strong indications that your technology and your website's improving because you're able to make better suggestions, give more confidence in the consumer purchasing multiple products.


Felix: Got it. So the repeat purchase rate, 70% is definitely huge. It's probably one of the highest I've ever heard of. And you mentioned that your product for its business. So it has to work, has to get results where people will want to come back and spend money with you again. So is it all about the product that has gotten you this result, or have there been other ways that you found to encourage repeat purchases?


Charlie: Yeah, just your point, think about if you had sleep issues and I sold you a product that helped you sleep. You're going to become a loyal customer. I think that's why I keep saying this whole, we're a product first business, like it's fundamental that we were because if they don't you're not coming back. I think again, just to repeat it, it's a testament to the quality of the products that we've created.


Felix: Got it. Now you mentioned the average order value as another metric that you pay attention to. And you were saying that the key here is that technology, and almost like a recommendation engine that has driven this up to make the right suggestions when people purchase a product.


Charlie: Yeah. So, I mean, it reverts back to the last question you asked too. It's helping the customers understand what's right for them through the home experience and communicating that in a way that it's easy to understand. So if you're on our site, you can see through the top section, we have a consultation that asks questions about sleep patterns, gut health issues, stress issues. And off the back of that, we make recommendations of which products are right to the consumer. It's part of the website that we've continued to evolve to get better, but of course, that then feeds down into the data that we're capturing. So if a customer is completing that survey and they don't convert at that point, we're collecting huge amounts of insight, huge amounts of data on who they are as a consumer. And then we can use that to then remarket, retarget about specific products based on what they've told us. So I think that again, with the category that we're in, there may be a moment in your life where you suddenly need a product like this. So let's say you've just had a newborn child and you're not able to sleep, for example. So that's a change in your current lifestyle. So if we are there, and we're talking to you, and we're helping educate you on how to sleep better before you've had a child, you're probably going to come back to us and try the product if that's something that you want to use and test.


Felix: Makes sense. Yeah. I'm starting to see this more just innovative, but much more high touch experience online with these consultations. I've seen with another success of a brand that sells bicycles, that makes these kinds of questionnaires to figure out what's the best suggestion to make, because it mimics the experience that people get when they walk into a high end store that has a consultation. Now, have you refined the consultation questions over time?


Charlie: Yeah. So it's ever evolving. I think that's the beauty of Shopify. You can test things really easily. It's something that we continue to refine. Obviously, we've launched new categories, we've launched new products. So as part of that, we've had to update the consultation. And as I mentioned, we have this consumer surveys that we send out that also feeds into the consultation and are we actually asking the right questions to make the right recommendations? It's a fascinating thing to look at when you see all the data that we have and the impact that has on everything we do from product development, to marketing, to communication, to education, our blogs. So I think if you're an early stage eComm business and you can start to capture data in an innovative way, it's really going to help you as you build and you scale. And we've obviously benefited from that hugely in the consultation that we have. And as part of that with continuing to have to iterate, continue to have to update it to be ... are you sure we're asking the right questions?


Felix: Can you give an example of how you use this almost like hidden survey for marketing purposes?


Charlie: Yeah. So, I mean, if you think about the data that we capture through that survey. So again, just using the sleep example, if you tell me through that you have issues getting to sleep, and then you don't convert, we have a very specific problem that we can then speak to through our marketing. We can also then use that through our performance marketing channels to say, "This is a audience set that has issues sleeping, let's serve them ads about sleep products or let's serve them journal content about sleep products, because we know they've told us that they have a problem sleeping. They've not yet tried one of our sleep products." So we can use that data and multiple different ways to market to them. And in what we believe is the right way. Instead of me serving you an advert on Instagram, not knowing anything about you, we're focused on obviously getting people to the site and learning about them to then speak to them in the right way about their particular problems.


Felix: Yeah. I think that the key here is that when you are not able to collect this kind of information, you're making a lot of assumptions about what your customers need, what they want. I think one of the things you mentioned too was that listening to your customers has allowed you to quickly evolve and adapt over time. So I want to talk more about the website real quick. So is this survey, this consultation, is this an app or did you build this in-house? How was this done?


Charlie: Yeah, so we built that in-house. As I said, it's an ever evolving part of our website. I think that we're actually going through a bit of an evolution of the site of the brand at the moment. So looking at launching some new features, new functionality within the next four to six weeks, which is super exciting. I think that will then reverse your question about KPIs. Everything we do from an eComm perspective is relayed back to those, does it improve our repeat purchase rate? Does it increase our conversion rate? Is it increasing the time spent on site? All those really interesting metrics that everything you do should relate back up to because if you're iterating on your site and those things are going down, you're probably making some wrong decisions. If you iterate on the site and they're going in the right direction, then you're heading in the right direction. So I think that the hierarchy of how you do things all starts with what are your goals? What are your KPIs? And then you build your site around that. Obviously, it's a very new and early business. You have to get something up. I think that getting a site up, you'll just learn huge amounts about where people engage, where people click, is that button in the right place very, very quickly. And then you can build from there. I find that when I speak to the entrepreneurs who spend huge amounts of time getting one of their websites up - over, and over, in a day discussing which button should go where, that you don't actually know until it goes live how someone's going to interact with it. And again, back to what we mentioned earlier, the joy of Shopify is that you can iterate. You don't even need to be that technical to move stuff around. Our marketing team can move images, they can move buttons, they can change things around, they can test things, they can trial things. And as an early stage business you're never going to get any more real data than the data that the customers give you. So you can test it internally as much as you want, but getting it live and testing and iterating based on that is definitely the way to go.


Felix: Yeah. So if anyone that wants to check it out, The Nue Co. is T-H-E-N-U-E-C-O.com. And I'll leave you with this last question, what's been the biggest lesson that you've learned as a company or you yourself recently, or over the last year, that's leading to changes that you're working on moving forward?


Charlie: Yeah. I think that it's probably quite timely in obviously February, March time in the US and the UK, when the Coronavirus hit businesses had to really adapt quickly. There was huge amounts of uncertainty in what was potentially coming and how economy would do, how would people still be spending, would consumers still be interested in these types of products? Obviously, our product was in a good category, so we were super fortunate. But I think that that period of time forced us as a business to reevaluate, look at ourselves over a very short period of time and make decisions with clarity, knowing where we want it to be, but with the mindset, that it was a lot of uncertainty. So I think that's been a huge challenge this year and one that we've learned a lot from with being able to implement a lot of efficiencies because of the challenge that it put us in.


Felix: Awesome. Thank you so much for coming on and sharing your experience, Charlie.


Charlie: No worries. Thanks Felix. Thanks for having me.